README.md, before:

What is wp-cli?
--------------

A set of tools for controlling WordPress installations from the command line.

Requirements
============

* PHP >= 5.3
* WP >= 3.3

Installing
==========

**Via PEAR:**

```sh
sudo pear config-set auto_discover 1
sudo pear install wp-cli.github.com/pear/wpcli
```

**Via GIT:**

```sh
git clone --recursive git://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli.git ~/git/wp-cli
cd ~/git/wp-cli
sudo utils/dev-build
```

You can replace `~/git/wp-cli` with whatever you want.

MAMP, XAMP, etc.
-----------

If the `php` command is not available, you can try finding an appropriate binary:

```sh
./utils/find-php
```

Then, create an environment variable called `WP_CLI_PHP` with the path found by `find-php`.

In a UNIX environment, you would do this by adding the following line to your `.bashrc` file:

```sh
WP_CLI_PHP=/path/to/php-binary
```

Using
=====

Go into a WordPress root folder:

```
cd /var/www/wp/
```

Typing `wp help` should show you an output similar to this:

```
Example usage:
	wp google-sitemap [build|help] ...
	wp core [update|help] ...
	wp home [help] ...
	wp option [add|update|delete|get|help] ...
	wp plugin [status|activate|deactivate|install|delete|update|help] ...
	wp theme [status|details|activate|help] ...
```

So this tells us which commands are installed: eg. google-sitemap, core, home, ...
Between brackets you can see their sub commands. 

Let's for example try to install the hello dolly plugin from wordpress.org:

```
wp plugin install hello-dolly
```

Output:

```
Installing Hello Dolly (1.5)

Downloading install package from http://downloads.WordPress.org/plugin/hello-dolly.1.5.zip ...
Unpacking the package ...
Installing the plugin ...

Success: The plugin is successfully installed
```

Multisite
---------

On a multisite installation, you need to pass a --blog parameter, so that WP knows which site it's supposed to be operating on:

```
wp theme status --blog=localhost/wp/test
```

If you have a subdomain installation, it would look like this:

```
wp theme status --blog=test.example.com
```

If you're usually working on the same site most of the time, you can put the url of that site in a file called 'wp-cli-blog' in your root WP dir:

```
echo 'test.example.com' > wp-cli-blog
```

Then, you can call `wp` without the --blog parameter again:

```
wp theme status
```

Adding commands
===============

Adding commands to wp-cli is very easy. You can even add them from within your own plugin.
You can find more information about adding commands in the [Commands Cookbook](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/wiki/Commands-Cookbook) on our Wiki.

**Please share the commands you make, issue a pull request to get them included in wp-cli by default.**

Changelog
=========

**0.6**

- added `wp post` and `wp post-meta`
- added `wp user-meta`
- added `wp blog create`
- added `wp export`
- added `wp transient`
- added `wp db optimize` and `wp db repair`
- added `wp db create`, `wp db drop` and `wp db reset`
- added `wp db import`
- added `wp theme install` and `wp theme update`
- added `wp core install_network`
- added `wp core update_db`
- added `--json` option to several subcommands
- added `--network` option to `wp plugin activate`
- added `--require` global parameter
- fixed `wp plugin update`
- fixed "out of memory" error
- misc bugfixes and optimizations
- man pages (not in PEAR package)

**0.5**

- added `wp user`
- added `wp core download`
- added `wp core config`
- added `wp plugin update --all`
- added `wp theme update`
- added `wp db import`
- added `--url` `--path` and `--user` global parameters
- various bugfixes

**0.4**

- added `wp eval` and `wp eval-file`
- added `wp export`
- added `wp core install`
- fixed `wp core update`
- added `--dev` flag to `wp plugin install`
- added `wp plugin uninstall`
- fixed `wp plugin install` and `wp plugin update`

**0.3**

- added `wp sql`
- improved `wp option`
- pear installer

**0.2**

- added multisite support
- improved `wp plugin` and `wp theme`
- added `wp generate`
- added `wp core version`
- added `wp --version`
- added bash completion script

**0.1**

- initial release

Contributors
------------

- [Contributor list](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/contributors)
- [Contributor guide](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/wiki/Commands-Cookbook)

Commit message:

link to wiki from readme

README.md, after:

What is wp-cli?
--------------

wp-cli is a set of command-line tools for managing WordPress installations. You can update plugins, set up multisite installs, update posts and much more.

Visit the [wiki](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/wiki) for more information.

Requirements
============

* PHP >= 5.3
* WP >= 3.3

Installing
==========

**Via PEAR:**

```sh
sudo pear config-set auto_discover 1
sudo pear install wp-cli.github.com/pear/wpcli
```

**Via GIT:**

```sh
git clone --recursive git://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli.git ~/git/wp-cli
cd ~/git/wp-cli
sudo utils/dev-build
```

You can replace `~/git/wp-cli` with whatever you want.

MAMP, XAMP, etc.
-----------

If the `php` command is not available, you can try finding an appropriate binary:

```sh
./utils/find-php
```

Then, create an environment variable called `WP_CLI_PHP` with the path found by `find-php`.

In a UNIX environment, you would do this by adding the following line to your `.bashrc` file:

```sh
WP_CLI_PHP=/path/to/php-binary
```

Using
=====

Go into a WordPress root folder:

```
cd /var/www/wp/
```

Typing `wp help` should show you an output similar to this:

```
Example usage:
	wp google-sitemap [build|help] ...
	wp core [update|help] ...
	wp home [help] ...
	wp option [add|update|delete|get|help] ...
	wp plugin [status|activate|deactivate|install|delete|update|help] ...
	wp theme [status|details|activate|help] ...
```

So this tells us which commands are installed: eg. google-sitemap, core, home, ...
Between brackets you can see their sub commands. 

Let's for example try to install the hello dolly plugin from wordpress.org:

```
wp plugin install hello-dolly
```

Output:

```
Installing Hello Dolly (1.5)

Downloading install package from http://downloads.WordPress.org/plugin/hello-dolly.1.5.zip ...
Unpacking the package ...
Installing the plugin ...

Success: The plugin is successfully installed
```

Multisite
---------

On a multisite installation, you need to pass a --blog parameter, so that WP knows which site it's supposed to be operating on:

```
wp theme status --blog=localhost/wp/test
```

If you have a subdomain installation, it would look like this:

```
wp theme status --blog=test.example.com
```

If you're usually working on the same site most of the time, you can put the url of that site in a file called 'wp-cli-blog' in your root WP dir:

```
echo 'test.example.com' > wp-cli-blog
```

Then, you can call `wp` without the --blog parameter again:

```
wp theme status
```

Adding commands
===============

Adding commands to wp-cli is very easy. You can even add them from within your own plugin.
You can find more information about adding commands in the [Commands Cookbook](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/wiki/Commands-Cookbook) on our Wiki.

**Please share the commands you make, issue a pull request to get them included in wp-cli by default.**

Changelog
=========

**0.6**

- added `wp post` and `wp post-meta`
- added `wp user-meta`
- added `wp blog create`
- added `wp export`
- added `wp transient`
- added `wp db optimize` and `wp db repair`
- added `wp db create`, `wp db drop` and `wp db reset`
- added `wp db import`
- added `wp theme install` and `wp theme update`
- added `wp core install_network`
- added `wp core update_db`
- added `--json` option to several subcommands
- added `--network` option to `wp plugin activate`
- added `--require` global parameter
- fixed `wp plugin update`
- fixed "out of memory" error
- misc bugfixes and optimizations
- man pages (not in PEAR package)

**0.5**

- added `wp user`
- added `wp core download`
- added `wp core config`
- added `wp plugin update --all`
- added `wp theme update`
- added `wp db import`
- added `--url` `--path` and `--user` global parameters
- various bugfixes

**0.4**

- added `wp eval` and `wp eval-file`
- added `wp export`
- added `wp core install`
- fixed `wp core update`
- added `--dev` flag to `wp plugin install`
- added `wp plugin uninstall`
- fixed `wp plugin install` and `wp plugin update`

**0.3**

- added `wp sql`
- improved `wp option`
- pear installer

**0.2**

- added multisite support
- improved `wp plugin` and `wp theme`
- added `wp generate`
- added `wp core version`
- added `wp --version`
- added bash completion script

**0.1**

- initial release

Contributors
------------

- [Contributor list](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/contributors)
- [Contributor guide](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/wiki/Commands-Cookbook)
